Palestinians in Northern Gaza are
reporting Fierce air and artillery
strikes this comes as Israeli troops
backed by tanks pressed into The Enclave
with a ground assault meanwhile
thousands of people have broken into un
Aid warehouses in Gaza taking food and
other supplies amid growing hunger and
Desperation gazin make a desperate dash
for basic
supplies raiding un we houses for flour
and hygiene products thousands rush to
take whatever they can
carry the chaotic scenes a sign of
growing
[Music]
despair we have no flower no Aid no
water not even toilets our houses were
destroyed no one cares about us we
appeal to the people of the world all
International powers are against us we
needed Aid and we wouldn't have done
this if we weren't in need
[Applause]
the call for help comes as Palestinians
face growing Danger from Israel's ground
offensive Israel's military released
these images of what it says are troops
pushing into the north of the Gaza Strip
as they try to eliminate the Hamas
terrorist group and rescue more than 200
hostages thousands of gazans are
Sheltering at the AL koods Hospital amid
the conflict now officials have been
told to evacuate here
[Music]
too the number of displaced people here
is between 12 and
14,000 the figure changes every
day counting the hospital departments
and the Intensive Care Unit we have
nearly 60 patients as well as 800
injured who are receiving treatment in
the emergency
department Israeli strikes have already
hit the area around down the hospital
but some feel leaving isn't safe
either and despite the growing risk from
air attacks thousands of Palestinians
are running out of places to run
to let's bring in Toby fricker here he
is a spokesperson for the United Nations
Children's Fund UNICEF he joins us from
Aman Jordan Toby UNICEF has people on
the ground in Gaza what are they telling
you about the situation
there
yeah that's right UNICEF has a team on
the ground in the Gaza Strip uh we lost
communication for around 24 hours but
thankfully yesterday we were in touch
again with the staff what they're saying
is the situation is is really horrific
uh you know we have a staff member
called nesma who has a four-year-old
seven-year-old girl uh she was telling
us about how how petrified they are her
four-year-old has been you resorting to
to sort of self harm pulling her hair
scratching her her thighs because she's
in such fear and and the trauma's
affected her so so much but at the same
time they're struggling to get access to
to the essentials for life so Safe Water
they've been drinking salty water now
for around 10 days um and her children
have been saying yeah why can't I have
you know clean water safe water again
regular water um so the situation is is
is horrific for for every child inside
the Gaza Strip right now there's a lot
of concern Toby about what's happening
in Gaza City particularly at the aifa
and alud hospitals what can you tell
tell us about the situation
there yeah well I think the hospitals
have been under massive strain I mean
even before this escalation uh the
resources that hospitals had were
limited in terms of medical supplies in
terms of fuel and now with this
escalation the situation is really
horrific first of all they're treating
people who are wounded children who are
wounded in in in attacks but they're
also treating people particularly
children newborns in incubators and
others for for for diseases and and
regular issues that happen all the time
um and now we you we're extremely
concerned from from what we hear about
the situation you know under
International humanitarian law let's not
forget that healthc care facilities are
are protected and that's absolutely
critical at this time as the World
Health Organization and others said you
know moving any anyone from any hospital
is essentially a death
sentence a UN General Assembly
resolution has called for an immediate
ceasefire that's among growing demands
for a humanitarian pause in the fighting
do you believe
that we will see the opening of
humanitarian corridors anytime
soon well we very much hope so uh that
we'll see uh increased humanitarian
access safe unimpeded access that is not
just oneof deliveries but is sustained
we really need to scale up the amount of
life-saving supplies that can come in
some have come in but it's it's
certainly by no means enough given the
immense needs that are inside the Gaza
Strip and that's why UNICEF that's why
the UN Secretary General keep calling
for an immediate humanitarian ceasefire
so that humanitarians can safely move
supplies around first of all get them in
and then move them around to reach uh
people who are in such need at this time
the focus of your organization of course
is children you described to us uh an
anecdote from one of one of your uh
employees on the ground there how are
children in general being affected by
this war because I understand the number
of casualties among children is very
high
yeah I mean the number of casualties is
is horrific I mean more than 3,300
children have reportedly been killed you
know another more than 6,300 children
reportedly been injured you know the
these numbers are are immense and and
horrific uh so first of all what people
are trying to do is protect the lives of
their children you know the staff member
I spoke about nesma she's been her her
first priority is to protect her
children's lives understandably of
course but she's also trying to do a job
a humanitarian job to support other
other children to support other families
who are also having massive massive
needs um so the situation is really
horrific and then and then there's the
access to to Services you know to Health
Services to essential service to that
safe water that we spoke about it's so
critical to to keep children alive and
that's where we're at it's really about
life-saving work Toby thank you very
much for taking time to talk with us
today that was Toby fricker spokesperson
for Unicef speaking to us from Aman
Jordan thank you
our correspondent Rebecca ritters has
the latest now on the Israeli ground
offensive from ashdod close to the Gaza
Border in southern Israel it's very very
hard to get access impossible to get
access but very hard to know what's
happening on the ground in Gaza we've
been witnessing or hearing at least a
lot of the second phase of this war this
expanded ground Invasion we know that
that continued to expand the Israeli
military telling us again this morning
that they're bolstering and expanding in
the the scale and scope of this ground
Invasion but exactly what's happening on
the ground is is very very hard to
verify we're getting peac Mill bits of
information we we it seems to appear or
there are reports that Israeli military
ground forces are now around about 3
kilomet inside that periphery of Gaza uh
and there's hand to-hand combat going on
we've heard that there were uh there was
rather a big battle around the arz
crossing um but we don't know anything
about numbers the Israeli military
saying that they uh targeted many Hass
militants but seeing in some of the
Palestinian telegram uh telegram TR
chats excuse me that also some soldiers
were killed as well but as I say very
hard to verify exactly what's happening
on the inside we know that there was a
huge internet blackout for nearly 36
hours from Friday uh into Sunday morning
and that made tell Communications
obviously getting news out even more
difficult was such a relief yesterday
morning when we were finally able uh to
reach some of our colleagues there but
you can imagine the fear for the the
Garin on the ground not able to get in
touch with their loved ones not to be
able to get in touch with Emergency
Services when in fact there were air
strikes in their area so a very serious
uh terrible situation happening and just
so difficult for us to be able to really
know exactly what's
happening now Hamas still has more than
200 hostages has there been any progress
backa in negotiating their
release well that number last night
actually was risen uh by to 239 now
there's still 40 people missing so that
number could well rise again Terry the
negotiations We Believe are still
ongoing Qatar playing a very big role in
those negotiations but we also know that
Qatar have said or prior to the ground
Invasion K Kat negotiators said that it
would make negotiations very difficult
if the Israeli military were to go in
they have now indeed done so and so we
don't know the state of those
negotiations there is some thought that
perhaps a ground Invasion may put
pressure on Hamas while we have other
people saying that it's going to have
the opposite effect and in fact the fact
that the G ground Invasion has started
means that getting those uh hostages out
alive is almost impossible once again
very hard to know look into the crystal
ball but uh the lot of pressure on the
government from the families of those
hostages very upset very on Friday when
the ground Invasion began they were very
upset they were you know there was a
meeting held with prime minister benjam
Benjamin met Netanyahu to say that they
were very angry that they weren't
informed and the fact that this was
happening meant that they you know
almost had no they were starting to lose
hope that their loved ones would come
out alive so a very very serious
situation also for the
hostages you mentioned pressure Rebecca
world leaders stepped up calls for
desperately needed humanitarian Aid to
reach Gaza
what's Israel's response to that kind of
international
pressure well we're slowly starting to
see more Aid go into Gaza though nowhere
near the amount that's needed for the
people there on the ground uh overnight
33 more trucks were allowed in but we're
getting eight saying some eight
organizations saying that more than 80 a
day are required for the needs of the
people there and that we're just not
seeing anything in those numbers now in
the beginning Israel was hesitant to
allow any Aid to go through it all when
President US President Biden came that
deal uh he struck a deal that to be
agreed the get the Israelis to agree to
start allowing Aid coming in we've been
seeing that slowly trickle over but a
hell of a lot more is needed for what's
the the humanitarian catastrophe that's
unfolding on the ground though as I say
33 trucks more came in overnight and
yesterday the language from the military
started to change they started saying
that they would be allowing more and
more trucks to come through now whether
that's because they know that this is
going to take a very long time and they
simply have to allow Aid in uh so that
the humanitarian catastrophe uh doesn't
completely explode on the ground uh you
know that could really say something
about their tactics but so far not
enough Aid is getting through but
hopefully in the coming days that will
be
expanded Rebecca thank you very much
that was our correspondant Rebecca
Ritter there in southern
Israel for more on Israel's incursion
into Gaza we can talk now to military
analyst Mike Martin of King's College
London Mike how do you see Israel's
ground operation unfolding in the days
and weeks
ahead morning Terry um I I see it
unfolding very slowly because it's it's
quite a difficult thing to do to move
into an urban area and to try and you
know Israel said they want to destroy
Hamas that's a very difficult thing to
do and so what we've seen so far is
Israel's crossed into the Gaza Strip
hasn't gone into the urban area but is
securing some areas outside of Gaza City
itself now Israel's prime minister
Benjamin Netanyahu he's been talking
about this being a long and difficult
War does Israel have any clear exit
strategy that you can see
Mike I cannot see an Israeli uh exit
strategy um these sorts of Wars
unconventional Wars always end with a
political settlement so they can't be
solved militarily and so the question
for Israel is okay it's going to go in
there it will take out some Hamas tunnel
tunnels it will kill some of the
leadership very unlikely to destroy
Hamas and then what they've then still
got the same problem that they started
with but there will be tens of thousands
of Palestinians dead and probably
thousands of Israelis as well and so the
question is what is the political
strategy
that wraps around this military activity
at the moment I see
none what about the hostages Mike uh
they're more than 200 hostages being
held by Hamas in the Gaza Strip uh
there's a lot of pressure on the Israeli
government to bring them out alive
obviously from other countries as well
there are many foreign Nationals there
uh how can Israel continue with its
ground defensive and extract those
hostages I I think it's very very
difficult and again I I think we can
what we can read into the Israeli
actions and as you said other other
governments who got their Nationals as
hostages are putting great pressure on
the Israelis but what I think we can
read into the Israeli actions is that
they don't care so much about the
hostages the hostages are not their
primary aim here their primary aim is to
do damage to Hamas and I think on the
side I think Netanyahu is politically in
trouble in Israel so a ground offensive
is a way of maintaining himself in power
I think this the hostages are a
secondary consideration I think we can
take that analysis from looking at the
Israeli actions if you were trying to
get the hostages back you wouldn't be
launching a ground
Invasion what about the signals coming
from other players in the region Mike
because this conflict has hugely
explosive potential for the region
doesn't
it it does and you know just over the
last few days we we've seen eruan of
Turkey um making comments to crowds in
Istanbul about going into Gaza I mean
obviously this is rhetoric is Iran as
well with its proxies Hezbollah and
others in the region so it it does have
great potential for and really what the
problem will come is is a mistake
somebody will make a mistake there's so
many players the situation is very
ambiguous it's hard to tell what's going
on we saw that with the the strike on
the hospital last week but fake news
whistles around all over the place and
in those environments it's very easy for
someone Iran America Israel turkey to
make a mistake and then they've
committed themselves to a much bigger
conflict than than hither to and that's
the problem that we face at the moment
Mike thank you very much that was
military analyst Mike Martin thank
you